the epistle of paul the apostle to titus 

1:1 paul, a servant of god, and an apostle of jesus christ, according to the faith of god's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness; 

1:2 in hope of eternal life, which god, that cannot lie, promised before the world began; 

1:3 but hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of god our saviour; 

1:4 to titus, mine own son after the common faith: grace, mercy, and peace, from god the father and the lord jesus christ our saviour. 

1:5 for this cause left i thee in crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as i had appointed thee: 

1:6 if any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly. 

1:7 for a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of god; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre; 

1:8 but a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate; 

1:9 holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers. 

1:10 for there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision: 

1:11 whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake. 

1:12 one of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, the cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies. 

1:13 this witness is true. wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith; 

1:14 not giving heed to jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth. 

1:15 unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled. 

1:16 they profess that they know god; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate. 

2:1 but speak thou the things which become sound doctrine: 

2:2 that the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience. 

2:3 the aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things; 

2:4 that they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, 

2:5 to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of god be not blasphemed. 

2:6 young men likewise exhort to be sober minded. 

2:7 in all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, 

2:8 sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you. 

2:9 exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again; 

2:10 not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of god our saviour in all things. 

2:11 for the grace of god that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, 

2:12 teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world; 

2:13 looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great god and our saviour jesus christ; 

2:14 who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. 

2:15 these things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. let no man despise thee. 

3:1 put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work, 

3:2 to speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men. 

3:3 for we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another. 

3:4 but after that the kindness and love of god our saviour toward man appeared, 

3:5 not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the holy ghost; 

3:6 which he shed on us abundantly through jesus christ our saviour; 

3:7 that being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. 

3:8 this is a faithful saying, and these things i will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in god might be careful to maintain good works. these things are good and profitable unto men. 

3:9 but avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain. 

3:10 a man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject; 

3:11 knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself. 

3:12 when i shall send artemas unto thee, or tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to nicopolis: for i have determined there to winter. 

3:13 bring zenas the lawyer and apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them. 

3:14 and let our's also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. 

3:15 all that are with me salute thee. greet them that love us in the faith. grace be with you all. amen.