the epistle of paul the apostle to philemon 

1:1 paul, a prisoner of jesus christ, and timothy our brother, unto philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer, 

1:2 and to our beloved apphia, and archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house: 

1:3 grace to you, and peace, from god our father and the lord jesus christ. 

1:4 i thank my god, making mention of thee always in my prayers, 

1:5 hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the lord jesus, and toward all saints; 

1:6 that the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in christ jesus. 

1:7 for we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother. 

1:8 wherefore, though i might be much bold in christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient, 

1:9 yet for love's sake i rather beseech thee, being such an one as paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of jesus christ. 

1:10 i beseech thee for my son onesimus, whom i have begotten in my bonds: 

1:11 which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me: 

1:12 whom i have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels: 

1:13 whom i would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel: 

1:14 but without thy mind would i do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly. 

1:15 for perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever; 

1:16 not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the lord? 

1:17 if thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself. 

1:18 if he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account; 

1:19 i paul have written it with mine own hand, i will repay it: albeit i do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides. 

1:20 yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the lord: refresh my bowels in the lord. 

1:21 having confidence in thy obedience i wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than i say. 

1:22 but withal prepare me also a lodging: for i trust that through your prayers i shall be given unto you. 

1:23 there salute thee epaphras, my fellowprisoner in christ jesus; 

1:24 marcus, aristarchus, demas, lucas, my fellowlabourers. 

1:25 the grace of our lord jesus christ be with your spirit. amen.